---
layout: post
title:  "The Odyssey Part 2"
date:   2014-03-13
---

And Jove said, "My child, what are you talking about? How can I forget Ulysses than whom there is no more capable man on
earth, nor more liberal in his offerings to the immortal gods that live in heaven? Bear in mind, however, that Neptune is
still furious with Ulysses for having blinded an eye of Polyphemus king of the Cyclopes. Polyphemus is son to Neptune by the
nymph Thoosa, daughter to the sea-king Phorcys; therefore though he will not kill Ulysses outright, he torments him by
preventing him from getting home. Still, let us lay our heads together and see how we can help him to return; Neptune will
then be pacified, for if we are all of a mind he can hardly stand out against us."

And Minerva said, "Father, son of Saturn, King of kings, if, then, the gods now mean that Ulysses should get home, we should
first send Mercury to the Ogygian island to tell Calypso that we have made up our minds and that he is to return. In the
meantime I will go to Ithaca, to put heart into Ulysses' son Telemachus; I will embolden him to call the Achaeans in
assembly, and speak out to the suitors of his mother Penelope, who persist in eating up any number of his sheep and oxen; I
will also conduct him to Sparta and to Pylos, to see if he can hear anything about the return of his dear father- for this
will make people speak well of him."

So saying she bound on her glittering golden sandals, imperishable, with which she can fly like the wind over land or sea;
she grasped the redoubtable bronze-shod spear, so stout and sturdy and strong, wherewith she quells the ranks of heroes who
have displeased her, and down she darted from the topmost summits of Olympus, whereon forthwith she was in Ithaca, at the
gateway of Ulysses' house, disguised as a visitor, Mentes, chief of the Taphians, and she held a bronze spear in her hand.
There she found the lordly suitors seated on hides of the oxen which they had killed and eaten, and playing draughts in
front of the house. Men-servants and pages were bustling about to wait upon them, some mixing wine with water in the
mixing-bowls, some cleaning down the tables with wet sponges and laying them out again, and some cutting up great quantities
of meat.

---

Telemachus saw her long before any one else did. He was sitting moodily among the suitors thinking about his brave father,
and how he would send them flying out of the house, if he were to come to his own again and be honoured as in days gone by.
Thus brooding as he sat among them, he caught sight of Minerva and went straight to the gate, for he was vexed that a
stranger should be kept waiting for admittance. He took her right hand in his own, and bade her give him her spear.
"Welcome," said he, "to our house, and when you have partaken of food you shall tell us what you have come for."

He led the way as he spoke, and Minerva followed him. When they were within he took her spear and set it in the spear- stand
against a strong bearing-post along with the many other spears of his unhappy father, and he conducted her to a richly
decorated seat under which he threw a cloth of damask. There was a footstool also for her feet, and he set another seat near
her for himself, away from the suitors, that she might not be annoyed while eating by their noise and insolence, and that he
might ask her more freely about his father.
